%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{Introduction}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
This paper describes a search for Dark Matter (DM) in events containing an
energetic narrow or wide jet and an imbalance of transverse momentum (\ETm) in a
dataset of pp collisions provided by the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at a
centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. The data were collected using the Compact Muon
Solenoid (CMS) detector and correspond to an integrated luminosity of
19.7\fbinv. 

The existence of Dark Matter is one of the most compelling sources of evidence
for physics beyond the Standard Model (SM) with a number of astrophysical
observations suggesting an abundance of a non-baryonic form of matter in the
universe. In many theories which extend the SM, the production of DM particles
in high-energy hadron-hadron collisions, such as those produced at the LHC is
realised via a mediator which couples to both the SM and the DM particles.  The
``monojet'' search provides a model-independent means of exploring DM production
at the LHC~\cite{monojet1,monojet2} while ``mono-V'', V=W or Z boson,
searches~\cite{monolep,Aad:2014vka,Aad:2013oja,ATLAS:2014wra} target the
associated production of DM with SM vector bosons, which can be enhanced in
theories with non-universal DM couplings~\cite{IVDM}.  The interpretation of
results from these and other DM searches at the LHC have generally utilized
effective field theories (EFT) that assume heavy mediators and DM production via
contact interactions~\cite{Fox:2011pm}.  The results of this analysis are
interpreted in the context of a spin-0 or spin-1 mediator decaying to DM pairs
under a set of simplified DM
models,~\cite{simplified1,Buchmueller:2013dya,Buchmueller:2014yoa}, compatible
with the recent recommendation of the ATLAS-CMS LHC DM
forum~\cite{Abercrombie:2015wmb}, which span a broad range of mediator and DM
particle properties. This allows for a comparison in sensitivity with respect to
direct detection experiments while retaining validity as a description of DM
production across the entire kinematic region accessible at the LHC. 

This search is the first at CMS to target the hadronic decay modes of the vector
bosons in the mono-V channels. A multivariate V-tagging technique is employed to
identify the individual jets of moderately boosted vector bosons. The
exploration of mono-V production at high boost utilises recently developed
techniques designed to exploit information available in the sub-structure of
jets. The events are categorised according to the nature of the jets in the
event and the signal extraction is performed by considering the $\ETm$
distribution in each event category. These two features provide improved
sensitivity compared to the previous CMS monojet analysis~\cite{monojet1}. 



This paper is structured as follows; Section 2 outlines the Dark Matter models
explored as signal hypotheses and Section 3 provides a description of the
physics object reconstruction and the event selection and categorisation used in
the search. Section 4 describes the background modelling used for the signal
extraction. The results of this analysis and interpretations of the results in
the context of simplified models for DM production are presented in Section 5.

%===============================================================================
\section{CMS detector}

The CMS detector, described in detail in ref.~\cite{CMSdetector}, is a
multi-purpose apparatus designed to study high-$\pt$ physics processes in
proton-proton and heavy-ion collisions.  A superconducting solenoid occupies its
central region, providing a magnetic field of 3.8\unit{T} parallel to the beam
direction. Charged-particle trajectories are measured by the silicon pixel and
strip trackers, which cover a pseudorapidity region of $\abs{\eta} < 2.5$. A
lead tungstate (PbWO$_4$) crystal electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL) and a
brass/scintillator hadron calorimeter (HCAL) surround the tracking volume and
cover $\abs{\eta} < 3$. The steel/quartz-fiber Cherenkov hadron forward (HF)
calorimeter extends the coverage to $\abs{\eta} < 5$.  The muon system consists
of gas-ionization detectors embedded in the steel flux return yoke outside the
solenoid, and covers $\abs{\eta} < 2.4$. The first level of the CMS trigger
system, composed of custom hardware processors, is designed to select the most
interesting events in less than 4\mus, using information from the calorimeters
and muon detectors. The high-level trigger processor farm then further reduces
the event rate to a few hundred Hz.  \section{Signal Hypotheses} The signal
hypotheses targeted in this search are provided under a set of simplified
mediator models. These models assume an additional particle, a fermionic dark
matter candidate, and an additional interaction that forces the production of a
Dark Matter.  It is assumed that this additional interaction is mediated by a
generic spin-0 or spin-1 particle.  The interactions are characterised by four
distinct Lagrangians, written for a Dirac-fermion Dark Matter particle $\chi$
with mass $m_{DM}$ and mediator($S$,$P$,$Z'$,$Z''$) with mass $m_{MED}$ as, 

\begin{align} \label{eq:LS} \mathcal{L}_{\mathrm{scalar}}&\supset\,
-\,\frac{1}{2}m_{\rm MED}^2 S^2 - g_{\rm DM}  S \, \bar{\chi}\chi - \sum_{q=b,t}
g_{SM}^q S \, \bar{q}q  - m_{\rm DM} \bar{\chi}\chi \,, \\ \label{eq:LP}
\mathcal{L}_{\rm{pseudoscalar}}&\supset\, -\,\frac{1}{2}m_{\rm MED}^2 P^2 - i
g_{\rm DM}  P \, \bar{\chi} \gamma^5\chi -\sum_{q=b,t}  i g_{SM}^q  P \, \bar{q}
\gamma^5q  - m_{\rm DM} \bar{\chi}\chi\,, \\ \label{eq:LV}
\mathcal{L}_{\mathrm{vector}}&\supset \, \frac{1}{2}m_{\rm MED}^2 Z'_{\mu}
Z'^{\mu} - g_{\rm DM}Z'_{\mu} \bar{\chi}\gamma^{\mu}\chi -\sum_q g_{SM}^q
Z'_{\mu} \bar{q}\gamma^{\mu}q - m_{\rm DM} \bar{\chi}\chi\,, \\ \label{eq:LA}
\mathcal{L}_{\rm{axial-vector}}&\supset\,  \frac{1}{2}m_{\rm MED}^2 Z''_{\mu}
Z''^{\mu} - g_{\rm DM} Z''_{\mu} \bar{\chi}\gamma^{\mu}\gamma^5\chi -\sum_q
g_{SM}^q Z''_{\mu} \bar{q}\gamma^{\mu}\gamma^5q - m_{\rm DM} \bar{\chi}\chi\,
\end{align}

assuming pure scalar, pseudoscalar, vector, and axial-vector mediated
interactions denoted by $S,~P,~Z'$ and $Z''$ mediators respectively.  The
couplings $g_{DM}$ and $g_{SM}$ denotes the coupling of the mediator to the Dark
Matter particle and to standard model particles respectively.  The choice of the
split in terms of axial-vector and vector mediators in the Lagrangian is to
parallel the existing separation with direct detection, into spin-dependent and
spin-independent interactions. Here, spin-independent can refer to either vector
or scalar mediated interactions, between which direct detection makes no
distinction, while spin-dependent interactions refer to axial-vector mediated
processes.
 
Pseudoscalar interactions are velocity suppressed in DM-nucleon interactions and
thus limited sensitivity from the direct detection experiments is
expected~\cite{Haisch:2012kf}.  An extension to the scalar and pseudo-scalar can
be performed by allowing the scalar and pseudoscalar interactions to undergo
electroweak symmetry breaking (EWSB) in an analogous way to the Higgs
mechanism~\cite{Khoze:2015sra,Hambye:2013sna,Khoze:2014xha,Khoze:2014woa,Altmannshofer:2014vra,Carone:2013wla,Heikinheimo:2013fta}.
Scalar and pseudoscalar models where EWSB is not present are denoted herein as
\emph{fermionic} Dark Matter production.

In collider experiments, the production of Dark Matter in spin-0 mediated
interactions is predominantly through gluon-fusion via a top-quark loop (see
Figure~\ref{fig:monojet0}).  When EWSB is present in the model, mono-V
signatures are produced through a Higgs-strahlung like process (see
Figure~\ref{fig:monoV0}). For the spin-1 signatures, Dark Matter is produced in
an analogous way to Z boson production through quark initiated processes. The
mono-V or monojet signatures follow from the presence of a radiated V-boson or
jet in the initial state. In all models, the coupling of the mediator to
standard model coupling is taken as unity ($g_{SM}=1$) along with the Dark
Matter coupling ($g_{DM}=1$). For the scalar and pseudoscalar models, this
denotes a Yukawa coupling to standard model particles. For all models
considered, the width is fixed under the minimum width constraint requiring that
only quarks and the dark matter couple to the mediator with no additional
modifications~\cite{Harris:2014hga}.

In order to model the expected contribution from these signals, Monte Carlo (MC)
events are generated using MCFM~\cite{mcfm} for the monojet final state, and
JHUGen~\cite{Anderson:2013afp} for the vector boson final state. All signal
models are generated at leading order, showered with
Pythia6~\cite{Sjostrand:2006za} and passed through a simulation of the CMS
detector using Geant4~\cite{geant4}.  For scalar and pseudoscalar mediated DM
production, the finite top quark mass is taken into account. 

\begin{figure}[htbp] \centering \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.36\textwidth]{figures/scalarbox.pdf}
\label{fig:monojet0} } \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.36\textwidth]{figures/scalarV.pdf}
\label{fig:monoV0} } \caption{Diagrams for production of the monojet (a) and
mono-V signature through Higgs-strahlung (b), through a scalar
mediator.\label{fig:monoXfeyn}} \end{figure}



\section{Event Selection and Categorization}\label{sec:selection}

Candidate signal events are selected on the basis of large values of \ETm and
one or more high-\pt jets, explicitly vetoing isolated leptons and photons.
Events are reconstructed with the CMS detector, following the standard CMS
reconstruction~\cite{CMSdetector}. 

The data used for this analysis are collected using either of two triggers
designed to record events containing large \ETm. The first requires an \ETm of
greater than 120 \gev, calculated only using information from the calorimeter,
while the second requires an \ETm greater than 95~\gev or 105~\gev, depending on
the data-taking period, calculated using  the particle flow (PF) reconstruction
algorithm~\cite{CMS-PAS-PFT-09-001} as well as jet with \pt$>80$ \gev and
$|\eta|<2.6$.  The lowest threshold on the \ETm for the selection of the events
is set at 200 \gev in order to maintain a trigger efficiency greater than $99$\%
with respect to the full event selection. 

Jets are reconstructed from the clustering of particle flow objects using either
the anti-$k_{\textrm{T}}$ algorithm~\cite{Cacciari:2008gp} with 0.5 (ak5 jet) as
the distance parameter,  or the Cambridge/Aachen algorithm~\cite{cajets} with
0.8 distance parameter (ca8). The leading jet is further required to be well
identified, using a standard set of identification criteria~\cite{jec}. The jets
are corrected for pileup on the basis of the event energy density and
proportionally to their area. Data-driven calibrations are then applied to
correct the absolute scale of the jet energy~\cite{jec}.

The \ETm is calculated as the magnitude of the negative vector sum of the
transverse momenta of all final state particles, which are reconstructed using
the particle-flow (PF) algorithm~\cite{CMS-PAS-PFT-09-001}.  Events with a large
mis-reconstructed \ETm are removed by applying a quality filter on the tracker
stability, Hcal stability, ecal stability, and muons from beam gas collisions.
The angle between the \ETm and the leading jet in the plane transverse to the
beam line, $\Delta\phi$, is required to be larger than 2 to reduce the
contribution from multijet QCD events.  Finally, events are vetoed if they
contain at least one well-identified and isolated electron, photon or muon with
$p_T>10$~\gev, or a tau with $p_T>15$~\gev.

Selected events are classified into three event categories, based on the
topology of the jets, in order to distinguish between initial or final state
radiation of gluons or quarks and jets arising from hadronic vector boson
decays.  The events are first distinguished by the presence of an single jet
containing the full quark decays of a vector boson (boosted category),
subsequently for a resolved vector boson (resolved category), and finally the
remaining events are collected into the monojet category. 

If the vector boson decays hadronically and has sufficiently high transverse
momentum, both its hadronic decay products are captured by a single
reconstructed ``fat''-jet.  Events in the boosted vector boson category are
required to have a reconstructed ca8 jet with $\pt>200$ \gev and  $\ETm>250$
\gev.  Further cuts are applied to improve the vector boson jet purity by
cutting on the variable ``N-subjettiness'' ($\tau_2/\tau_1$ defined
in~\cite{Thaler:2010tr,Thaler:2011gf}), which identifies jets with a two sub-jet
topology, and the pruned jet mass ($m_{\mathrm{prune}}$)~\cite{Ellis:2009me}.
The $\tau_2/\tau_1$ ratio is required to be smaller than 0.5 and the pruned jet
mass, $m_{\mathrm{prune}}$, is selected to be close to both the W and Z boson
masses, namely to satisfy $60<m_{\mathrm{prune}}<110$ \gev.   Events which
contain additional jets close to the ca8 jet, but no closer than $\Delta R <
0.5$, are selected to include the frequent cases in which initial state
radiation yields additional jets.  If an ak5 jet with $p_T>30$ and $|\eta|<2.5$
is reconstructed, and the opening angle between it and the ca8 jet,
$\Delta\phi(\mathrm{ak5,ca8})$, is smaller than 2, the event is selected. Events
with more than one ak5 jets with $p_T>30$ \gev and $|\eta|<2.5$, reconstructed
at $\Delta R> 0.5$ with respect to the ca8 jet are rejected.
Figure~\ref{fig:boostvtagvars} shows the distributions of $\tau_2/\tau_1$ and
$m_{\mathrm{prune}}$, (before the application of the jet mass cut) in simulation
and data for the boosted event category. Some disagreement is present in the
modelling between data and Monte Carlo simulation, this is a known effect
resulting form imperfect knowledge of the parton shower and detector modelling.
This disagreement is well covered by the systematic uncertainties used in the
analysis. A detailed discussion of the modelling can be found in
~\cite{Khachatryan:2014vla}.  \begin{figure*}[hbtp]\begin{center} \subfigure[]{
\includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/t2t1_sig_baseline.pdf} }
\subfigure[]{
\includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/mass_sig_nomasscut.pdf} }
\caption{Distributions of $\tau_2/\tau_1$ before the jet mass cut (a) and
$m_{\mathrm{prune}}$ (b) for events in data and MC in the boosted event
category.  A cut of $\tau_2/\tau_1<$0.5 has been applied in figure b. The
disagreement present in the observables is covered by additional systematic
uncertainties which are not shown here.}
\label{fig:boostvtagvars}\end{center}\end{figure*}

In cases where the electroweak boson has insufficient transverse momentum for
its hadronic decay to be fully contained in a single reconstructed fat-jet, a
selection that looks for decays into a pair of ak5 jets is applied to recover
the event, known as the resolved V-tagger.  The selection requires that each jet
has $p_T>30$ GeV and $|\eta|<2.5$ and that the dijet has a mass between 60\gev
and 110\gev, consistent with originating from a W or Z boson. To further reduce
the combinatorial background, a multivariate (MVA)  V-tagger is applied. The
inputs to this resolved V-tagger are the values from each jet of
likelihood-based discriminator variable which distinguishes quark-initiated jets
from gluon-initiated jets~\cite{JME-14-002}, the jet pull
angle~\cite{Gallicchio:2010sw} and the mass drop
variable~\cite{Izaguirre:2014ira}. In events where multiple dijet pairs are
found, the pair with the highest V-tagger value is taken as the candidate. The
distribution of the V-tagger variable for SM backgrounds and for a scalar
mediator produced in association with either a W or Z boson is shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:vtagger}.  \begin{figure*}[hbtp]\begin{center} \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/res_vmvalog_0.pdf} }
\subfloat[][]{ \includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/res_vmvalog_1.pdf}
} \caption{ Resolved V-tagger decaying to two jets variable distribution
($V\rightarrow$jj  MVA) in simulation and data after all other signal region
cuts in the resolved category.  The distributions are shown split into dijet
$\pt < 160$ \gev (a) and dijet $\pt > 160$ \gev (b), corresponding roughly to
the point at which jets begin to overlap.  The expected distribution for the
vector boson produced in association with a scalar mediator with is shown.}
\label{fig:vtagger}\end{center}\end{figure*}

To reduce contamination from top backgrounds, the event is rejected if it
contains a b-tagged jet, defined using an MVA which combines secondary vertex
information to identify the likelihood the jet contains a b hadron decay (CSV
medium definition~\cite{BTAG}). Finally, the events are required to have
$\ETm>250$ \gev. 

The events that do not qualify for either of the two V-tagged categories are
required to have one or two high \pt jets showing characteristics indicative of
originating from a \emph{single} quark or gluon.  For the monojet category, at
least one ak5 jet within $|\eta|<2.0$ with \pt greater than 150 \gev and a \ETm
greater than 200 \gev is required.  As in the boosted category, events with a
second ak5 jet close to the leading one ($\Delta\phi(j_1,j_2) < 2$) with
$p_T>30$ GeV and $|\eta|<2.5$ are selected to allow the frequent cases where
initial state radiation yields two jets.  Events with three or more ak5 jets
with $p_T>30$ \gev and $|\eta|<2.5$ are rejected.

To model the expectation from SM backgrounds, simulated samples are produced for
the Z+jets, W+jets, $t\bar{t}$, single-top, and QCD multi-jet processes using
Madgraph~\cite{amcatnlo} interfaced with Pythia6~\cite{Sjostrand:2006za} for
hadronization and fragmentation, where jets from the matrix element are matched
to the parton shower following the MLM matching
prescription~\cite{Mangano:2006rw}.  Additionally a single-top background
sample, produced with POWHEG~\cite{powheg}, and a set of diboson samples,
produced directly with Pythia6, are added.  The MC samples are corrected to
account for the distribution of the number of additional (pileup or PU)
interactions observed in 2012 dataset. Both signal and background samples are
additionally corrected to account for the mis-modelling of hadronic recoil in
simulation following the procedure described in~\cite{CMS-PAS-JME-12-002}.


Figure~\ref{fig:ptandmet} shows the \ETm and leading jet $p_{T}$ distributions
in data and simulation after selection for all three event classes combined. The
backgrounds are normalized to 19.7\fbinv and the expected distribution for
vector mediated DM production assuming a DM mass of 10~\GeV and mediator mass of
1~\TeV is shown.  The discrepancy between the data and simulation is a result of
both mis-modelling of the detector resolution and an imperfect theoretical
description of the kinematics of the W/Z+jet processes.  Both effects are
corrected for in this analysis using a data-driven approach described in the
following section. 

\begin{figure*}[hbtp]\begin{center} \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/plot_config_combined_nocorr.pdf}
} \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[width=0.49\textwidth]{figures/plot_config_combined_nocorr_jetPT.pdf}\\
} \caption{ Distributions of \ETm (a) and leading jet $p_{T}$ (b) in simulated
events and data after the signal selection for all three event categories
combined. The dashed red line shows the expected distribution assuming vector
mediated DM production with $m_{DM}=10$ GeV and $m_{MED}=1$ TeV.  The gray band
in the ratio panels indicate the statistical uncertainty from the limited number
of background MC events.  } \label{fig:ptandmet}\end{center}\end{figure*}


\section{Background Estimation}

The presence of DM production will be observable as an excess of events with
respect to the expectations for the SM backgrounds in a region at high missing
transverse momentum. Significant improvements in terms of sensitivity can be
expected if several bins in $\ETm$ are considered simultaneously. Further
improvement can be derived by adding control regions, regions which are
orthogonal to the signal with negligible contributions expected from signal, to
simultaneously constrain the predictions of the standard model background. A
binned likelihood fit is performed in the range 250 \gev to 1000 \gev (or 200
\gev to 1000 \gev for the monojet category), where the binning is chosen to
ensure each corresponding bin of a set of control regions is populated. The
width of the highest $\ETm$ bin allows for ease of comparison to the previous
CMS search~\cite{monojet1}. 

Data from three control regions, the dimuon and photon control regions, and the
single-muon control region, are used to determine the contributions from
\Zvvjets~and \Wlvjets~respectively. The events in the control regions are
divided into the three  categories, using the same selection criteria as
described in Section~\ref{sec:selection} but in addition requiring the presence
of a pair of opposite charged muons consistent with a Z boson decay, a high
$p_{T}$ photon or a single muon consistent with a semileptonic W boson decay.
In the dimuon, single-muon and photon control regions, the dimuon pair,
single-muon or the photon's momentum are removed and the \ETm ~is recalculated
yielding a distribution of fake \ETm. The distribution of fake \ETm in data in
the control regions is used to derive the expectation from the Z+jets and W+jets
backgrounds in the signal region.

As the decay branching ratio of \Zmm~is approximately 6 times smaller than that
to neutrinos, the resulting statistical uncertainty on the \Zvvjets~template
becomes a dominant systematic uncertainty at large values of \ETm.  A
complementary approach is to use events in data that have a high-$p_{T}$ photon
recoiling against jets to further constrain the \Zvvjets~background
template~\cite{CMS-PAS-SUS-08-002}. This is advantageous since the production
cross-section of \phojets~is roughly 3 times that of the \Zvvjets~resulting in a
smaller statistical uncertainty on the predicted background. 
 
The \ETm spectra of the V+jets backgrounds are determined through the use of a
likelihood fit, simultaneously across all bins in the three control regions.
The expected number of events $N_{i}$ in a given bin $i$ of fake \ETm, for a
particular event category, is given by, $N^{Z_{\mu\mu}|\gamma }_{i}=
\dfrac{{\mu^{\Zvv}_{i}}}{R^{Z|\gamma}_{i}}$, for the dimuon and photon control
regions and  $N^{W}_{i} =  \dfrac{{\mu^{\Wlv}_{i}}}{R^{W}_{i}}$, for the
single-muon control region. The parameters $\boldsymbol{\mu}^{\Zvv}$ and
$\boldsymbol{\mu}^{\Wlv}$ are the free parameters of the likelihood representing
the yields of $\Zvvjets$ and $\Wlvjets$ in each bin of the signal region. The
additional terms  $R^{W}_{i}$, $R^{Z|\gamma}_{i}$ denote transfer factors which
account for the extrapolation of a specific background from the signal region to
the control regions. The likelihood function for a particular category, $c$, is
given as,   

\begin{align*}
\mathcal{L}_{\textrm{c}}(\boldsymbol{\mu}^{\textrm{c},\Zvv},\boldsymbol{\mu}^{\textrm{c},\Wlv},\boldsymbol{\theta},\boldsymbol{\phi})
&=        \prod_{i} \mathrm{Poisson}\left(d^{\textrm{c},\gamma}_{i}
|B^{\textrm{c},\gamma}_{i}(\boldsymbol{\phi}) +\frac{ \mu^{\textrm{c},\Zvv}_{i}
}{R^{\textrm{c},\gamma}_{i}(\boldsymbol{\theta})}   \right) \\ &~\times
\prod_{i} \mathrm{Poisson}\left(d^{\textrm{c},Z}_{i}
|B^{\textrm{c},Z}_{i}(\boldsymbol{\phi})      +\frac{ \mu^{\textrm{c},\Zvv}_{i}
}{R^{\textrm{c},Z}_{i}     (\boldsymbol{\theta})}       \right ) \\ &~\times
\prod_{i} \mathrm{Poisson}\left(d^{\textrm{c},W}_{i}
|B^{\textrm{c},W}_{i}(\boldsymbol{\phi})      +\frac{ \mu^{\textrm{c},\Wlv}_{i}
}{R^{\textrm{c},W}_{i}     (\boldsymbol{\theta})}       \right),
\numberthis\label{eqn:candclh} \end{align*}

where $d^{c,\gamma/Z/W}_{i}$ are the observed number of events in each bin of
the photon, dimuon and single-muon control regions.  The expected contributions
from background processes in the dimuon, single-muon and photon control regions
are denoted $B^{Z}$, $B^{W}$ and $B^{\gamma}$ in equation~\ref{eqn:candclh}
respectively.

The transfer factors $R^{Z}_{i}$ account for the ratio of $BR(\Zvv)/BR(\Zmm)$
and the muon efficiency times acceptance in the dimuon control region, while
$R^{\gamma}_{i}$ account for the ratio of differential cross-sections between
the Z+jet and photon+jet processes and the efficiency times acceptance of the
photon selection for the photon plus jet control region. The differential boson
$p_{T}$ cross-sections of photon and Z production are first corrected using NLO
k-factors derived by  comparing their $p_{T}$ distributions in events generated
with Madgraph5\_aMC@NLO~\cite{amcatnlo}, and subsequently showered,  to the
distributions produced at leading order before deriving the transfer factors. 

Systematic uncertainties are modelled as constrained nuisance parameters,
$\boldsymbol{\theta}$, which allow for variation of the transfer factors,
$R^{\gamma/Z/W}$, in the fit and are treated as fully correlated between event
categories.  These include theoretical uncertainties on the photon to Z
differential cross-section ratio from renormalization and factorization scale
uncertainties.  Electroweak corrections to the ratio are not accounted for in
the simulation. The full correction is also taken as an uncertainty on the
ratio, which is of the order of 15\% when the boson (Z or $\gamma$) \pt is at
the TeV scale~\cite{Kuhn:2005gv}. A conservative choice is made in assuming this
uncertainty to be uncorrelated across bins of \ETm. Additionally, the
uncertainty in the muon selection efficiency, photon selection efficiency, and
photon purity are included and fully correlated across the event categories and
control regions, where relevant. A systematic uncertainty of 10\% is included
for the top and diboson background normalisations~\cite{tagkey2015250} and
correlated between the single-muon and dimuon control regions. The results of a
fit to the control regions are shown in Figure~\ref{fig:combined_fit_result}.
 
\begin{figure*}[hbtp]\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_photon_monojet.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_zmm_monojet.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_wmn_monojet.pdf}\\
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_photon_resolved.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_zmm_resolved.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_wmn_resolved.pdf}\\
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_photon_boosted.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_zmm_boosted.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.32\textwidth]{figures/post_fit_wmn_boosted.pdf}\\
\end{center} \caption{Expected and observed fake \ETm distributions in the
photon~(\cmsLeft), dimuon (middle) and single-muon~(\cmsRight) control regions
after performing the simultaneous likelihood fit to the control regions.  Each
row, from top to bottom, shows the result of the fit in the monojet, resolved
and boosted event categories respectively. The red line represents the expected
distribution before fitting to the control regions, while the blue line shows
the expectation after the fit. In the ratio, the blue and red points show the
ratio of the observed data to the post-fit and pre-fit expectations
respectively. The blue bands indicate the statistical and systematic
uncertainties from the fit.\label{fig:combined_fit_result} } \end{figure}

The remaining backgrounds are expected to be much smaller than those from V+jets
and are estimated directly from the simulation.  Shape and normalization
systematic uncertainties from the recoil corrections applied to these
backgrounds are included to account for the uncertainty in the energy scale and
resolution of jets. Additionally, a systematic uncertainty of 4\% is included
for the top backgrounds due to the uncertainty of the b-tagging efficiency for
the b-jet veto in the resolved category. Systematic uncertainties of 7\%, 10\%
and 50\% are included for the top~\cite{Khachatryan:2015oqa},
diboson~\cite{tagkey2015250,Khachatryan:2015sga} and QCD
backgrounds~\cite{monojet1} respectively to account for the uncertainty in their
production cross-sections. These individual backgrounds have been studied
separately using dedicated control regions in data in order to validate these
systematic uncertainties. Finally, a systematic uncertainty of 2.6\% in the
luminosity measurement~\cite{lumi} is included for all of the MC derived
backgrounds.

\begin{section}{Results}

A simultaneous fit to the signal region across the three event categories,
allowing for sytematic uncertainty variations of the background expectations, is
performed.  The corresponding comparisons between data and background in the
\ETm distributions, for each of the three categories, after this fit are shown
in Figure~\ref{fig:post_fit_plots}.   Agreement between the expected SM
backgrounds and data is observed at the percent level across the three
categories. A local significance of the data in each bin is calculated by
comparing the likelihood between the background only fit (shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:post_fit_plots}) and another setting the expected total yield of
events in that bin to the observation in data. The largest local significance
observed using this procedure is $1.9\sigma$ and corresponds to the largest \ETm
bin of the monojet category.


\begin{figure*}[hbtp]\begin{center} \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/plot_config_monojet.pdf} }
\subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/plot_config_resolved.pdf} }\\
\subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{figures/plot_config_boosted.pdf} }
\caption{ Post-fit distributions of \ETm expected from SM backgrounds and
observed in data in the signal region. The expected distributions are evaluated
after fitting to the observed data simultaneously across the monojet (a),
resolved (b) and boosted (c) categories.  The gray bands indicate the post-fit
uncertainty on the background, assuming no signal. The expected distribution
assuming vector mediated DM production is shown for a DM mass of 10 GeV and a
mediator mass of 1 TeV.  } \label{fig:post_fit_plots}\end{center}\end{figure*}

Exclusion limits are set for these models using the CLs method~\cite{cls} with a
profile likelihood ratio as the test-statistic in which systematic uncertainties
are modelled as nuisance parameters.  For each signal hypothesis tested, upper
limits are placed on the ratio of the signal cross-section to the predicted
cross-section, denoted as $\mu=\sigma/\sigma_{TH}$. Limits are presented in
terms of excluded regions in the $m_{\mathrm{MED}}-m_{\textrm{DM}}$ plane,
assuming either scalar, pseudoscalar, vector, and axial-vector mediators, and
determining the points for which $\mu\ge1$ is excluded at 90\% CL or more.
Experimental systematic uncertainties, including jet and \ETm response and
resolution, are included on the signal model as nuisance parameters, while the
theoretical systematic uncertainties on the inclusive cross-section (20\% and
30\% for the vector and axial-vector, and scalar and pseudoscalar models
respectively) due to QCD scale and PDF uncertainties are instead added as
additional contours to the exclusion limits. These uncertainties are chosen to
be conservative across the full range in mediator mass from 10~\GeV to 3~\TeV.

To compare direct detection experiments with collider experiments, the direct
detection bounds can be interpreted under the Lagrangians given in
Equation~\ref{eq:LS}. The limits obtained in the simplified models use the
standard approaches to compute t-channel
scattering~\cite{Kurylov:2003ra,Hisano:2010ct,
Cheung:2013pfa,Buchmueller:2014yoa}.  For the vector and scalar mediator models,
the limits are compared with the measurements by
LUX~\cite{Akerib:2012ys,Akerib:2013tjd,Szydagis:2014xog} which currently
provides the strongest constraints for $m_{\rm{DM}} \gtrsim 6$ GeV. For
axial-vector couplings, the limits are compared with DM-proton-scattering limits
from PICO-2L~\cite{Amole:2015lsj}..  For pseudoscalar interactions, direct
detection bounds are strongly velocity suppressed.  The most appropriate
comparison is therefore to the most sensitive bounds from indirect detection
from FermiLAT~\cite{Ackermann:2011wa,Abdo:2010ex}.  These limits apply to the
scenario in which dark matter is annihilated in the center of a galaxy producing
a $\gamma$ ray signature.  The results are also compared, for all four types of
mediators, to constraints obtained from the observed cosmological relic density
of DM as determined from measurements of the cosmic microwave background by the
WMAP and Planck experiments~\cite{Bennett:2003ba,Planck:2006aa}. The expected DM
abundance is estimated, separately for each model, using a thermal freeze-out
mechanism implemented in MadDM~\cite{Backovic:2013dpa}, and compared to the
observed cold DM density $\Omega_c*h^2=0.12$~\cite{Ade:2013zuv}.  It is assumed
that the simplified model hypothesised provides the only relevant BSM dynamics
for DM interactions.

Figure~\ref{fig:masslims} shows the 90\% CL exclusions for the vector,
axial-vector, scalar and pseudoscalar mediator models.  The 90\% confidence
level upper limit on the ratio of excluded cross-section to the predicted
cross-section ($\mu_{\textrm{up}}$), when assuming the mediator only couples to
fermions, is shown by the blue color scale. These limits are calculated under
the assumption that only the initial state partons and the DM particle
contribute to the width of the mediator (minimum width
constraint)~\cite{An:2012va,Abercrombie:2015wmb,Fox:2011pm,simplified1}. 

Under the vector mediator model, the direct detection bounds dominate across
most of the plane, while for the axial-vector, there is good complementarity
between the direct detection limits and those from this analysis. Limits in the
scalar mediator scenario are more sensitive than those from direct detection for
small Dark Matter masses. Additional sensitivity is gained for larger mediator
masses in this scenario above 350 \GeV due to the rise in cross-section of the
gluon fusion loop process for masses greater than twice the top quark mass. In
the pseudoscalar mediator scenario, the limits from this analysis exceed the
reach in $m_{\mathrm{MED}}$ byeond those from FermiLAT over the whole region.

\begin{figure}[htbp] \centering \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_800_0_Both.pdf}
\label{fig:mass_800} } \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_801_0_Both.pdf}
\label{fig:mass_801} }\\ \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_805_0_Both.pdf}
\label{fig:mass_805} } \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_806_0_Both.pdf}
\label{fig:mass_806} } \caption{90\% CL Exclusion contours in the
$m_{\textrm{med}}-m_{\textrm{DM}}$ plane assuming a vector (a), axial-vector
(b), scalar (c), or pseudoscalar (d) mediator.  The blue scale shows the 90\% CL
upper limit on the signal strength assuming the mediator only couples to
fermions. For the scalar and pseudoscalar mediators, the exclusion contour
assuming coupling only to fermions is explicitly shown in the orange line. The
white region shows model points which were not tested when assuming coupling
only to fermions and are not expected to be excluded by this analysis under this
assumption.  The excluded region is to the bottom-left of the contours shown in
all cases except for that from the relic density as indicated by the shading.
In all of the mediator models, a minimum width is assumed\label{fig:masslims}.}
\end{figure}

Figures~\ref{fig:xslims_800},~\ref{fig:xslims_801} and~\ref{fig:xslims_805} show
the same exclusion contours, this time translated into the plane of
$m_{\textrm{DM}}-\sigma_{\textrm{SI/SD}}$, where $\sigma_{\textrm{SI/SD}}$ are
the spin-independent/dependent (vector and scalar/axial-vector) DM-nucleon
scattering cross-sections. These representations allow for a more direct
comparison with limits from the direct-detection experiments which typically set
upper limits on these cross-sections~\cite{ Malik:2014ggr,Harris:2015kda}. It
should be noted that the limits set from this analysis are however only valid
under the simplified model considered, and in particular assuming
$g_{\textrm{DM}}=g_{\textrm{SM}}=1$. For the scalar model, it is assumed that
only heavy quarks (top and bottom) contribute. Such a choice limits the
sensitivity for direct detection, however it allows for direct comparison
between collider and direct detection without an additional assumption on the
light quark couplings~\cite{Harris:2015kda}.  For the vector and scalar mediator
models, direct-detection limits are stronger than those obtained in this
analysis except in the scenario where the Dark Matter mass is less than around 6
\GeV. For the axial-vector mediator model, the limits obtained in this analysis
dominate up to around $m_{\mathrm{DM}}=300$ \GeV. 
 
The excess observed in FermiLAT data has led to speculations that Dark Matter
annihilation is mediated by a light pseudoscalar~\cite{Calore:2014nla}.  The
production mechanism for these $\gamma$ rays can be interpreted under Dark
Matter annihilation to b-quarks allowing for direct comparison with limits from
this analysis~\cite{Buchmueller:2015eea,Buckley:2014fba,Harris:2014hga}.
Figure~\ref{fig:xslims_806} shows the exclusion contours assuming pseudoscalar
mediation in the plane of DM pair annihilation cross-section versus
$m_{\textrm{DM}}$.  Again, it is assumed that only heavy quarks (top and bottom
quarks) contribute in the production of the mediator while for  the
interpretation of the limits in the annihilation cross-section, it is assumed
that the mediator only decays to b-quark pairs. 
As with all interpretations, the DM particle is assumed to be a Dirac fermion.
The 68\% CL preferred regions in this plane assuming the annihilation of DM
pairs to light-quarks (qq), tau or bottom pairs, using data from FermiLAT, are
shown as solid colour regions. Under the simplified model used, all of these
regions are excluded by this analysis.


\begin{figure}[htbp] \centering \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_800_0_Both_DD.pdf}
\label{fig:xslims_800} } \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_801_0_Both_DD.pdf}
\label{fig:xslims_801} }\\ \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_805_0_Both_DD.pdf}
\label{fig:xslims_805} } \subfloat[][]{
\includegraphics[angle=0,width=0.50\textwidth]{figures/MassLimit_1_806_0_Both_DD.pdf}
\label{fig:xslims_806} } \caption{90\% CL Exclusion contours in the
$m_{\textrm{DM}}-\sigma_{\textrm{DM}}$ plane assuming a vector (a), axial-vector
(b), scalar (c), or pseudoscalar (d) mediator.  For the scalar and pseudoscalar
case, the orange line shows the exclusion contours assuming the mediator only
couples to fermions. The excluded region in all plots is to the top left of the
contours shown. In the vector and axial-vector scenarios, limits are shown
independently for monojet, boosted and resolved categories. The partial
combination of the "V-tagged" categories (resolved and boosted) categories is
shown for which the boosted category provides the dominant contribution.  In all
of the mediator models, a minimum width is assumed. For the pseudoscalar, 68\%
CL preferred regions, using data from FermiLAT, for DM annihilation to
light-quarks (qq), tau pairs ($\tau\tau$) and bottom-quark pairs (bb) are shown
by the solid green, pink and brown coloured regions respectively. } 
\end{figure}

\section{Summary} 
A search has been presented for an excess of events with a
high energy jet in association with a large missing transverse momentum in a
data sample of proton-proton interactions at centre-of-mass energy of 8 TeV. The
data correspond to an integrated luminosity of 19.7\fbinv collected by the CMS
detector at the LHC.  This search is the first at CMS to utilise sub-structure
techniques in order to identify hadronically decaying vector bosons in both
boosted and resolved scenarios. The sensitivity to a mono-V signature is
enhanced by categorising the events according to the origin of the jets in the
event as either quark/gluon radiation or from a hadronically decaying vector
boson through these techniques.  The sensitivity is further increased by using
the full shape of the $\ETm$ distribution to discriminate signal from standard
model backgrounds.  No significant deviation from the expectation from SM
backgrounds is observed in the \ETm distributions.  The results of the search
are interpreted under a set of simplified models which describe the production
of DM via vector, axial-vector, scalar or pseudoscalar mediation and constraints
on the parameter space of these simplified models are produced. The search is
the first at CMS to be interpreted under these simplified models for DM
production. 
